# iHelp
Say Good-Bye to receptionists


iHelp is an automated receptionist capable of providing aid to visitors and guests by retrieving information from the database of local organizations with mere natural language and other interactive methods. The aid consists of a localized map, relevant images and description of the queried statement.

Internet has been exponentially expanding over the previous decades and still remains as the major source for information as of today. Although, the information specific to the small organizations seems to be missing out from this whole complex collection of data. Information such as locating specific personnel in an organization, directions to the restrooms etc., remains confined to the members of the organization. Thus creating a need to employ receptionists. Extracting information from the stored Database System (DBMS) has always been a challenge to non-technical users. Database query languages such as Structured Query Language (SQL) becomes an unwanted necessity for anybody who wishes to retrieve information stored in the database. Using natural language such as English in place of a query language eliminates the need to learn an intermediate query language by the end users. Natural Language Interface to Database (NLIDB) achieves the objective by processing the natural language (NLP) to the query language. NLIDB is still under active development and is yet to reach a saturation point for the accuracy rate. Although, a pretty good accuracy rate can be achieved by restricting the natural language to ‘wh’ questions such as what, when, where etc. These wh questions can be converted into simple SQL queries with very high accuracy rate thus enabling the end users without any technical background to easily extract information from the local organizations.
